I want to see what would happen if we disassociated laws from geography... What if the United States of America was not a description of a physical country, but instead was an ideology that you could subscribe to? What if all the laws that make up our country could be separated and you could subscribe to certain ones, but not others.

I would like to see this because I think it more closely mirrors the reality, where laws only matter if you are caught. People have free will and can do whatever they want whether it's illegal or not. We chose to follow laws because, for the most part, they are reasonable, and the consequences of breaking them are undesirable.

There are different kinds of laws and different reasons for every law:

Seat belts
Driving on the right side of the road
Property Taxes
Murder
Narcotics
Truancy
Estate Law
DRM/Copywrite
drinking age
driving age
civil rights
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_areas_of_law

Most of these laws will never affect us and we are probably completely ignorant of them.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse is a bullshit phrase because there are a LOT of laws.

I would like to see a system where you are only expected to adhere to laws that you subscribe to... I can't imagine how this would work, but lemme try with some extreme examples:

If I don't believe that drugs should be criminal, then I cannot be prosecuted for possessing or using drugs...

If I believe that abortion is equivalent to murrder, then I would would be tried as a murderer if I got an abortion. But if I believed in a woman's right to her body, then getting an abortion would not be illegal for me.

What would happen if I changed my belief before taking an action that I would normally consider to be illegal? Would I still be held accountable to my previous beliefs? What if I was strictly anti-drug, but then I somehow got addicted and changed my mind about the criminality of drugs. Would I be held to my former-self's belief system? Should I only be punished for crimes if I feel they are wrong?

What about civil rights? If I had a business and I didn't want to serve people of a specific race, age, or gender, how would that go down?

What about laws like the ones that fund universal healthcare or NASA or social security? These systems need a large buy-in to be effective, old people would all opt for healthcare, but without the young, healthy people being forced into it as well, it wouldn't work.

What about other two-party interactions like sexual harassment. If I were a progressive woman being harassed by a traditional (chauvinistic) male, I would consider him to be a criminal, but he would not consider himself to be one, so who's legality would be respected?

Would we start off subscribing to a template of laws like "USA" or "Netherlands" or "China" and then, as we encounter them or gain opinions, start flipping switches on more granular laws like copywrite or biking without a helmet or minimum wage?

How does all of this tie into money?

So, the funny thing about all of this is that we live in a world where there are wildly different laws all over, so if you really didn't want to pay for healthcare, you could move to a country that doesn't have it. The problem is that all that moving is expensive and there are other barriers like language or climate that might be problematic. I think I'd subscribe to the laws of northern Europe, but would they work on a larger, more diverse nation like the USA? I don't know. I just find it kind of stupid that everyone in this giant country has to follow mostly the same laws (with a little variation by state). Geography really has nothing to do with your belief system ("Bible Belt" idioms withstanding - just because you're in it, doesn't mean you have to be a conservative Christian). People do tend to clump like that though.

How about noise laws? What if your 'hood is raucous, and then some grumpy, light-sleeper, night-shift person moves in and starts complaining?

What about environmental laws? They affect everyone, but some people just don't care...
